Updated workaround for displaying SVG images on front SA in v3 (#1292)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/images.md

After establishing media library you can create object Relations between the main Content item and the image Content item being used by it.

To learn more about ImageAsset Field Type and its customization see [Field Type Reference](../api/field_type_reference.md#imageasset-field-type).

## Handling SVG images

> Currently, Ibexa DXP does not allow you to store SVG images using `Image` or `ImageAsset` FieldType. Until the full support for this MIME type is in place, you can work things around by relying on `File` FieldType and implementing custom extension which would enable you to display/download files in your templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, [[= product_name =]] does not allow you to store SVG images by using the Image or ImageAsset Field Type. 
Until the full support for this MIME type is in place, you can work things around by relying on the File Field Type.
You must implement a custom extension that lets you display and download files in your templates.
```

Author: I am fine with that except for splitting into two sentences: one needs to rely on Field Type **and** implement custom Twig extension. These are two steps explained below.

> First, you need to add a proper rule in `config/routes.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you add a proper rule in the `config/routes.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
app.svg_download:
    path: /asset/download/{contentId}/{fieldIdentifier}/{filename}
    defaults: { _controller: app.controller.content.svg:downloadSvgAction }
```

> It will point to the custom controller which will handle the action of downloading SVG file. Below you can find its definition (placed in `config/services.yaml`) and implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It points to a custom controller that handles the downloading of the SVG file. 
The controller's definition (that you place in the `config/services.yaml` file) and implementation are as follows:
```

        return $response;
    }
}
```

To be able to use a proper link in your templates, you also need a dedicated Twig extension:

```php
<?php

namespace App\Twig;

use Symfony\Component\Routing\RouterInterface;
use Twig\Extension\AbstractExtension;
use Twig\TwigFunction;

class SvgExtension extends AbstractExtension
{
    /** @var \Symfony\Component\Routing\RouterInterface */
    protected $router;

    /**
     * SvgExtension constructor.
     */
    public function __construct(RouterInterface $router)
    {
        $this->router = $router;
    }

    /**
     * @return array|TwigFunction[]
     */
    public function getFunctions()
    {
        return [
            new TwigFunction('ibexa_svg_link', [
                $this,
                'generateLink',
            ]),
        ];
    }

    public function generateLink(int $contentId, string $fieldIdentifier, string $filename): string
    {
        return $this->router->generate('app.svg_download', [
            'contentId' => $contentId,
            'fieldIdentifier' => $fieldIdentifier,
            'filename' => $filename,
        ]);
    }
}
```

> Don't forget to configure the extension properly (also within `config/services.yaml` file):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you configure the extension within the `config/services.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
App\Twig\SvgExtension:
    arguments:
        - "@router"
    tags:
        - { name: twig.extension }
```

> Now you can load SVG files in your templates using generated links and newly created Twig helper:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can load SVG files in your templates by using generated links and a newly created Twig helper:
```

To learn more about ImageAsset Field Type and its customization see [Field Type Reference](../api/field_type_reference.md#imageasset-field-type).

## Handling SVG images

Currently, Ibexa DXP does not allow you to store SVG images using `Image` or `ImageAsset` FieldType. Until the full support for this MIME type is in place, you can work things around by relying on `File` FieldType and implementing custom extension which would enable you to display/download files in your templates.

First, you add a proper rule in the `config/routes.yaml` file:

```yaml
app.svg_download:
    path: /asset/download/{contentId}/{fieldIdentifier}/{filename}
    defaults: { _controller: app.controller.content.svg:downloadSvgAction }
```

It points to a custom controller that handles the downloading of the SVG file. 
The controller's definition (that you place in the `config/services.yaml` file) and implementation are as follows:

```yaml
App\Controller\SvgController:
    public: true
    arguments:
        - "@ezpublish.api.service.content"
        - "@ezpublish.fieldType.ezbinaryfile.io_service"

>         - "@ezpublish.translation_helper"

Reviewer 2: It might not be clear that it needs to be placed under `services:`, instead of the top level.

>         - "@ezpublish.api.service.content"
>         - "@ezpublish.fieldType.ezbinaryfile.io_service"
>         - "@ezpublish.translation_helper"

Reviewer 2: CS
```suggestion
        - '@ezpublish.api.service.content'
        - '@ezpublish.fieldType.ezbinaryfile.io_service'
        - '@ezpublish.translation_helper'
```

```

```php
<?php

> namespace App\Controller;

Reviewer 2: CS: missing strict types declaration

use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\ContentService;
use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Values\Content\Field;
use eZ\Publish\Core\Helper\TranslationHelper;
use eZ\Publish\Core\IO\IOServiceInterface;
use eZ\Publish\Core\MVC\Symfony\Controller\Controller;
use InvalidArgumentException;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\ResponseHeaderBag;

class SvgController extends Controller
{

>     const CONTENT_TYPE_HEADER = 'image/svg+xml';

Reviewer 2: CS
```suggestion
    private const CONTENT_TYPE_HEADER = 'image/svg+xml';
```

    /** @var \eZ\Publish\API\Repository\ContentService */
    private $contentService;

    /** @var \eZ\Publish\Core\IO\IOServiceInterface */
    private $ioService;

    /** @var \eZ\Publish\Core\Helper\TranslationHelper */
    private $translationHelper;

    public function __construct(
        ContentService $contentService,
        IOServiceInterface $ioService,
        TranslationHelper $translationHelper
    ) {
        $this->contentService = $contentService;
        $this->ioService = $ioService;
        $this->translationHelper = $translationHelper;
    }

    /**
     * @throws \eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Exceptions\NotFoundException
     * @throws \eZ\Publish\API\Repository\Exceptions\UnauthorizedException
     * @throws \eZ\Publish\Core\Base\Exceptions\InvalidArgumentValue

>      * @throws \eZ\Publish\Core\Base\Exceptions\NotFoundException

Reviewer 2: Do not use Core Base to hint exceptions. NotFound is already type hinted, InvalidArgumentValue is just API InvalidArgumentException

     */
    public function downloadSvgAction(
        int $contentId,
        string $fieldIdentifier,
        string $filename,
        Request $request
    ): Response {
        $version = null;

        if ($request->query->has('version')) {
            $version = $request->query->get('version');
        }

        $content = $this->contentService->loadContent($contentId, null, $version);
        $language = $request->query->has('inLanguage') ? $request->query->get('inLanguage') : null;
        $field = $this->translationHelper->getTranslatedField($content, $fieldIdentifier, $language);

        if (!$field instanceof Field) {

>             throw new InvalidArgumentException(sprintf("%s field not present in content %d '%s'", $fieldIdentifier, $content->contentInfo->id, $content->contentInfo->name));

Reviewer 2: CS / readability.
Split this into multiple lines.

        }

        $binaryFile = $this->ioService->loadBinaryFile($field->value->id);
        $response = new Response($this->ioService->getFileContents($binaryFile));
        $disposition = $response->headers->makeDisposition(
            ResponseHeaderBag::DISPOSITION_INLINE, $filename
        );

        $response->headers->set('Content-Disposition', $disposition);
        $response->headers->set('Content-Type', self::CONTENT_TYPE_HEADER);

        return $response;
    }
}
```

To be able to use a proper link in your templates, you also need a dedicated Twig extension:

```php
<?php

> namespace App\Twig;

Reviewer 2: CS: missing `declare(strict_types=1);`

use Symfony\Component\Routing\RouterInterface;
use Twig\Extension\AbstractExtension;
use Twig\TwigFunction;

class SvgExtension extends AbstractExtension
{
    /** @var \Symfony\Component\Routing\RouterInterface */
    protected $router;

    /**
     * SvgExtension constructor.
     */
    public function __construct(RouterInterface $router)
    {
        $this->router = $router;
    }

    /**

>      * @return array|TwigFunction[]

Reviewer 2: CS: this is redundant
```suggestion
     * @return TwigFunction[]
```

     */
    public function getFunctions()
    {
        return [
            new TwigFunction('ibexa_svg_link', [
                $this,
                'generateLink',
            ]),
        ];
    }

    public function generateLink(int $contentId, string $fieldIdentifier, string $filename): string
    {
        return $this->router->generate('app.svg_download', [
            'contentId' => $contentId,
            'fieldIdentifier' => $fieldIdentifier,
            'filename' => $filename,
        ]);
    }
}
```

Next, you configure the extension within the `config/services.yaml` file:

```yaml

> App\Twig\SvgExtension:
>     arguments:
>         - "@router"
>     tags:
>         - { name: twig.extension }

Reviewer 2: SF4+:
```suggestion
App\Twig\SvgExtension:
    autowire: true
    autoconfigure: true
```
^ note: you still might need `'@router'` argument if it's not autowirable, but Twig extension definitely needs to be autoconfigured - check that please.

Author: I checked, marking the extension's definition as autowired and autoconfigured is enough in this case.

}
```

To be able to use a proper link in your templates, you also need a dedicated Twig extension:

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

namespace App\Twig;

use Symfony\Component\Routing\RouterInterface;
use Twig\Extension\AbstractExtension;
use Twig\TwigFunction;

class SvgExtension extends AbstractExtension
{
    /** @var \Symfony\Component\Routing\RouterInterface */
    protected $router;

    /**
     * SvgExtension constructor.
     */
    public function __construct(RouterInterface $router)
    {
        $this->router = $router;
    }

    /**
     * @return TwigFunction[]
     */
    public function getFunctions()
    {
        return [
            new TwigFunction('ibexa_svg_link', [
                $this,
                'generateLink',
            ]),
        ];
    }

    public function generateLink(int $contentId, string $fieldIdentifier, string $filename): string
    {
        return $this->router->generate('app.svg_download', [
            'contentId' => $contentId,
            'fieldIdentifier' => $fieldIdentifier,
            'filename' => $filename,
        ]);
    }
}
```

Next, you configure the extension within the `config/services.yaml` file:

```yaml

> App\Twig\SvgExtension:
>     autowire: true
>     autoconfigure: true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
services:
    # ...
    App\Twig\SvgExtension:
        autowire: true
        autoconfigure: true
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: yet another spot where it's not clear, why not simply (next diff)

After establishing media library you can create object Relations between the main Content item and the image Content item being used by it.

To learn more about ImageAsset Field Type and its customization see [Field Type Reference](../api/field_type_reference.md#imageasset-field-type).

## Handling SVG images

> Currently, [[= product_name =]] does not allow you to store SVG images by using the Image or ImageAsset Field Type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, [[= product_name_oss =]] does not allow you to store SVG images by using the Image or ImageAsset Field Type. 
```
